Update Glossary, pt. 1 (#637)
substrate-developer-hub/substrate-developer-hub.github.io: docs/knowledgebase/getting-started/glossary.md

title: Glossary
---

This page defines and explains many of the domain-specific terms that are common to the Substrate
ecosystem. This is a helpful resource for even the most experienced Substrate developers.

---

## Adaptive Quorum Biasing (AQB)

A means of specifying the quorum (minimum vote) needed for a proposal to pass dependent upon voter
turnout. Positive bias means requiring increasingly more aye votes than nay votes as there is lower
turnout; negative (aka inverted) bias is the opposite (see the
[graphs](https://youtu.be/VsZuDJMmVPY?t=25413)). It avoids the need for strict quorums, which are
arbitrary and bring about undesirable mechanics. Adaptive quorum biasing is used by the
[FRAME Collective pallet](../runtime/frame#collective) that materializes as a governing

> [Council](#council) on a number of Substrate-based chains.

Reviewer: 1. AQB does not specify a quorum, it specifies a passing threshold _based on_ the quorum.
2. Collective does not use AQB, Democracy does.

Author: I updated this but I'm almost certain it doesn't make it "better". Can you help me improve it?

## AfG

An internal codename for "Al's Finality Gadget", which is named after
[Alistair Stewart](https://research.web3.foundation/en/latest/research_team_members/alistair.html)

> who invented it. AfG is a component of the [GRANDPA](#grandpa) finality mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
who invented it. AfG is synonymous with [GRANDPA](#grandpa).
```

## Aggregation

Used in the context of [FRAME](#frame) "[pallet](#pallet) aggregation", this means combining
analogous types from multiple runtime modules into a single type. This allows each module's
analogous types to be represented. Currently there are five such data types:

> - `Log` (an extensible header item)

Author: Are these the types documented here? https://substrate.dev/rustdocs/v2.0.0-rc6/frame_support/macro.construct_runtime.html

> - `Log` (an extensible header item)

Reviewer 2: not quite. Some of those are used in aggregation, and some (like validate unsigned) are not.

I dont think there is an easy list anywhere other than looking through the macro and code

> - `Log` (an extensible header item)

Author: Okay cool I guess this will need to become the "easy list". I will add `Error` for now.

title: Glossary
---

This page defines and explains many of the domain-specific terms that are common to the Substrate
ecosystem. This is a helpful resource for even the most experienced Substrate developers.

---

## Adaptive Quorum Biasing (AQB)

A means of specifying a passing threshold based on the quorum (minimum vote) needed for a proposal
to pass dependent upon voter turnout. Positive bias means requiring increasingly more aye votes than
nay votes as there is lower turnout; negative (aka inverted) bias is the opposite (see the
[graphs](https://youtu.be/VsZuDJMmVPY?t=25413)). It avoids the need for strict quorums, which are
arbitrary and bring about undesirable mechanics. Adaptive quorum biasing is used by the
[FRAME Democracy pallet](../runtime/frame#democracy), which is used by chain-governing

> [councils](#council) on a number of Substrate-based chains.

Reviewer: I feel like you are working against the meanings of the words. E.g. "As there is lower turnout": turnout only increases, people can change their votes, or even withdraw them, but they can't "un-show up".

A means of specifying a passing threshold for a referendum based on voter turnout. Positive turnout bias means that as more stake votes, the passing threshold decreases; i.e. a higher turnout _positively_ increases the likelihood of a referendum passing. Negative turnout bias means that as more stake votes, the passing threshold increases. Negative turnout bias is also called "default carries" as, given an apathetic voting body, the referendum will pass by default. A neutral turnout bias is simply a majority carries vote. AQB removes the need for strict quorums. AQB is implemented in the Democracy pallet, which provides the interfaces for other on-chain bodies (e.g. a Collective or any token holder) to call referenda with positive, neutral, or negative biases.

Author: I made a few tweaks let...hope I didn't go too far.

---

## Adaptive Quorum Biasing (AQB)

A means of specifying a passing threshold for a referendum based on voter turnout. Positive turnout
bias means that as more votes are cast, the passing threshold _decreases_; i.e. a higher turnout
positively increases the likelihood of a referendum passing. Negative turnout bias means that the
passing threshold _increases_ as more votes are cast. Negative turnout bias is also called "default
carries" as, given an apathetic voting body, the referendum will pass by default. A neutral turnout
bias specifies a simple majority passing threshold. AQB removes the need for strict quorums, which
are arbitrary and create undesirable governance mechanics. AQB is implemented in the
[Democracy pallet](../runtime/frame#democracy), which provides the interfaces for a number of
on-chain bodies (e.g. a [Collective](#council) or any token holder) to call referenda with positive,
neutral, or negative biases.

## AfG

An internal codename for "Al's Finality Gadget", which is named after
[Alistair Stewart](https://research.web3.foundation/en/latest/research_team_members/alistair.html)
who invented it. AfG is synonymous with [GRANDPA](#grandpa).

## Aggregation

> Used in the context of [FRAME](#frame) "[pallet](#pallet) aggregation", this means combining

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Used in the context of [FRAME](#frame), "[pallet](#pallet) aggregation" means combining
```

## Adaptive Quorum Biasing (AQB)

A means of specifying a passing threshold for a referendum based on voter turnout. Positive turnout
bias means that as more votes are cast, the passing threshold _decreases_; i.e. a higher turnout
positively increases the likelihood of a referendum passing. Negative turnout bias means that the
passing threshold _increases_ as more votes are cast. Negative turnout bias is also called "default
carries" as, given an apathetic voting body, the referendum will pass by default. A neutral turnout
bias specifies a simple majority passing threshold. AQB removes the need for strict quorums, which
are arbitrary and create undesirable governance mechanics. AQB is implemented in the
[Democracy pallet](../runtime/frame#democracy), which provides the interfaces for a number of
on-chain bodies (e.g. a [Collective](#council) or any token holder) to call referenda with positive,

> neutral, or negative biases.

Reviewer 3: this all looks and makes sense to me but would def to @joepetrowski to verify its 100% correct

Reviewer: Yeah this works.

- voting for all candidates is exactly equivalent to voting for none; and
- it is possible to vote "against" a single candidate by voting for all other candidates.

> Approval voting is used by the [FRAME Collective pallet](../runtime/frame#collective) that

Reviewer: Collective does not use approval voting at all. Elections Phragmen does and then changes the instantiation of Collective that is the Council using it. Technical Committee is also an instantiation of Collective but does not use approval voting. https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot/blob/6577751/runtime/polkadot/src/lib.rs#L491
```suggestion
Approval voting is used by the [FRAME Elections Phragmen pallet](../runtime/frame#elections-phragmen) that
```

"producers". This term is synonymous with "miner" or "coinbase" on other [blockchains](#blockchain).

## Authority

Authorities are the [accounts](../learn-substrate/account-abstractions) who, as a collective, manage
[consensus](#consensus) on a [blockchain](#blockchain) network. In a
[proof-of-stake](#nominated-proof-of-stake-npos) network (such as one using
[the Staking pallet](../runtime/frame#staking) from [FRAME](#frame)), authorities are determined
through a token-weighted nomination/voting system.

> The terms "authorities" and "[validators](#validator)" may sometimes seem to refer the same thing.
> "Validators" is a broader term that can include other aspects of chain maintenance such as
> parachain validation. In general authorities are a (non-strict) subset of validators and many
> validators will be authorities.

## Aura (aka "Authority Round")

Deterministic [consensus](#consensus) protocol with non-instant [finality](#finality) where
[block](#block) production is limited to a rotating list of [authorities](#authority) that take
turns creating blocks; the majority of online authorities are assumed to be honest. Learn more by

> reading [the official wiki article](https://openethereum.github.io/wiki/Aura) for the Aura consensus

Author: W3F Tech Ed did not have a better suggestion so I'm going to be leaving this in for now.

algorithm.

### Aurand

A variant of [Aura](#aura) where [authorities](#authority) are shuffled randomly on each round,
increasing security.

### Aurand/Ouroboros

Extension of [Aurand](#aurand) where block production involves [authorities](#authority) competing
over limited slots that move very quickly; most slots are not populated, albeit with rare slot
collisions.

### Aurand + GRANDPA

A hybrid [consensus](#consensus) scheme where [Aurand](#aurand) is used for block production and

> short-term probabilistic-[finality](#finality), with long-term absolute finality provided through

Reviewer: ```suggestion
short-term probabilistic [finality](#finality), with deterministic finality provided through
```

[GRANDPA](#grandpa).

---

## Blind Assignment of Blockchain Extension (BABE)

> [Block authoring](#author) protocol similar to [Aura](#aura) where [authorities](#authority) are
> chosen with a verifiable random function (VRF) instead of a rotating list. Authorities are assigned
> a time slot in which they can select a chain and submit a new block for it. See

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Block authoring](#author) protocol similar to [Aura](#aura) where [authorities](#authority) win
time slots based on a verifiable random function (VRF) instead of a rotating list. The winning authority
can select a chain and submit a new block for it. See
```

> a time slot in which they can select a chain and submit a new block for it. See
> https://w3f-research.readthedocs.io/en/latest/polkadot/BABE.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a time slot in which they can select a chain and submit a new block for it. See
[Web3 Research](https://w3f-research.readthedocs.io/en/latest/polkadot/BABE.html).
```

[GRANDPA](#grandpa).

---

## Blind Assignment of Blockchain Extension (BABE)

[Block authoring](#author) protocol similar to [Aura](#aura), however [authorities](#authority) win
time slots based on a verifiable random function (VRF) as opposed to Aura's round-robin selection
method. The winning authority can select a chain and submit a new block for it. Learn more about
BABE by referring to its
[official Web3 Foundation research document](https://w3f-research.readthedocs.io/en/latest/polkadot/BABE.html).

## Block

A single element of a blockchain that [cryptographically](#cryptographic-primitives) binds a set of
[extrinsic](#extrinsic) data (the "body") to a "[header](#header)". Blocks are arranged into a tree
through parent pointers (implemented as a hash of the parent) and the tree is pruned into a list via
a "fork-choice rule".

## Blockchain

A blockchain is a distributed network of computers that uses
[cryptography](#cryptographic-primitives) to allow a group of participants to trustlessly come to
[consensus](#consensus) on the [state](#state) of a system as it evolves over time. The computers

> that compose the blockchain network are called [nodes](#node).

Author: I think it's important that we define blockchain, but happy to hear what others have to say because I know that conceptually it represents a rather big leap.

## Consensus

The process by which [authorities](#authority) agree upon the next valid [block](#block) to be added

> to the [relay chain](#relay-chain).

Reviewer: Why specific to relay chain? Could be any chain.

### Consensus Engine

A means for forming consensus over what constitutes the canonical (true) chain. In the context of

> Substrate, it refers to a set of algorithms that dictate which of a number of input [blocks](#block)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A subsystem of a the Substrate node responsible for running an algorithm to reach [consensus](#consensus). Learn more about the consensus engines that ship with Substrate and the Traits that codify their APIs in the [knowledgebase article on consensus](../advanced/consensus).
```

form the chain.

### Consensus Algorithms

An algorithm that is able to ensure that a set of [actors](#authority), who don't necessarily trust
each other, can come to consensus over some computation. Often mentioned alongside "**safety**" (the
ability to ensure that any progression will eventually be agreed as having happened by all honest
nodes) and "**liveness**" (the ability to keep making progress). Many consensus algorithm are
referred to as being [Byzantine-fault-tolerant](#byzantine-fault-tolerance-bft).

There is

> [an excellent blog series](https://polkadot.network/polkadot-consensus-part-1-introduction/) that

Reviewer: Agree, down with adjectives and adverbs, just use better nouns and verbs.

many programming languages certain data types are referred to as "primitive types". The term
"cryptographic primitive" refers to concepts like signature schemes and hashing algorithms.
Cryptographic primitives are essential to many aspects of the Substrate ecosystem:

- [Blockchains](#blockchain): [blocks](#block) must be hashed under some algorithm and reference
  their parent block's hash.
- [State](#state): Substrate storage is encoded as a [trie](#trie-patricia-merkle-tree), a data
  structure that uses hashing to facilitate efficient verification.
- [Consensus](#consensus): [authorities](#authority) often use digital signature schemes of some
  kind.
- [Transaction](#transaction) authentication: in [runtimes](#runtime) where transactions and
  [accounts](../learn-substrate/account-abstractions) are used, accounts are identified and
  authenticated through the use of cryptography.

## Council

The term "Council" is used on a number of Substrate-based networks, such as [Kusama](#kusama) and
[Polkadot](#polkadot) to refer to an instance of
[the Collective pallet](../runtime/frame#collective) that is used as a part of the network's

> [FRAME](#frame)-based [runtime](#runtime). The Collective pallet defines a body of delegates chosen
> from a number of [approval votes](#approval-voting) for fixed terms. The Council primarily serves as
> a body to optimise and check/balance the more inclusive referendum system. It has a number of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[FRAME](#frame)-based [runtime](#runtime). The Council primarily serves as
a body to optimize and check/balance the more inclusive referendum system. It has a number of
```

  [AQB](#adaptive-quorum-biasing-aqb); and
- cancel a referendum (when unanimous only); and
- give up their seat.

---

## Database Backend

The means by which the [state](#state) of a [blockchain](#blockchain) network is persisted between
invocations of the [blockchain node](#node) application. There is
[advanced documentation](../advanced/storage) that documents the implementation of the database
backend that is used by Substrate-based chains.

## Dev Phrase

A
[mnemonic phrase](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mnemonic#For_numerical_sequences_and_mathematical_operations)
that is intentionally made public. All of the
[well-known development accounts](../integrate/subkey#well-known-keys) (Alice, Bob, Charlie, Dave,
Ferdie, and Eve) are generated from the same dev phrase. The dev phrase is:
`bottom drive obey lake curtain smoke basket hold race lonely fit walk`.

Many tools in the Substrate ecosystem, such as [`subkey`](../integrate/subkey), allow users to
implicitly specify the dev phrase by only specifying a derivation path such as `//Alice`.

## Digest

An extensible field of the [block header](#header) that encodes information needed by

> [light clients](#light-client) for chain synchronisation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[light clients](#light-client) for chain synchronization.
```

## Dispatch

A dispatch is the execution of a function with a pre-defined set of arguments. In the context of the

> [FRAME](#frame) system for [runtime](#runtime) development, this refers specifically to the "runtime

Author: I'm not totally on board with "FRAME framework". I'm not totally wedded to "FRAME system"...I will try out "FRAME library" and we'll see how we like that :+1:

> [FRAME](#frame) system for [runtime](#runtime) development, this refers specifically to the "runtime

Reviewer: How about..... "FRAME"?

"In the context of runtime development with FRAME, this **_____** refers specifically..."

## Consensus

The process by which [authorities](#authority) agree upon the next valid [block](#block) to be added
to a [blockchain](#blockchain).

### Consensus Engine

A means for forming consensus over what constitutes the canonical (true) chain. In the context of
Substrate, it refers to a set of algorithms that dictate which of a number of input [blocks](#block)
form the [blockchain](#blockchain).

### Consensus Algorithms

An algorithm that is able to ensure that a set of [actors](#authority), who don't necessarily trust
each other, can come to consensus over some computation. Often mentioned alongside "**safety**" (the
ability to ensure that any progression will eventually be agreed as having happened by all honest
nodes) and "**liveness**" (the ability to keep making progress). Many consensus algorithm are
referred to as being [Byzantine-fault-tolerant](#byzantine-fault-tolerance-bft).

> There is

Reviewer 4: @danforbes Use my feedback on the previous two entries (consensus, and consensus engine) as you see fit.

Author: Honestly I'm inclined to strip these definitions way down. If we define "consensus" well, it shouldn't be super necessary to elaborate extensively on what a "consensus engine" or "consensus algorithm" is.

- [Blockchains](#blockchain): [blocks](#block) must be hashed under some algorithm and reference
  their parent block's hash.
- [State](#state): Substrate storage is encoded as a [trie](#trie-patricia-merkle-tree), a data
  structure that uses hashing to facilitate efficient verification.
- [Consensus](#consensus): [authorities](#authority) often use digital signature schemes of some
  kind.
- [Transaction](#transaction) authentication: in [runtimes](#runtime) where transactions and
  [accounts](../learn-substrate/account-abstractions) are used, accounts are identified and
  authenticated through the use of cryptography.

## Council

The term "Council" is used on a number of Substrate-based networks, such as [Kusama](#kusama) and
[Polkadot](#polkadot) to refer to an instance of
[the Collective pallet](../runtime/frame#collective) that is used as a part of the network's
[FRAME](#frame)-based [runtime](#runtime). The Council primarily serves as a body to optimize and
check/balance the more inclusive referendum system. It has a number of powers:

- introduce referenda with a removed or inverted (when unanimous only)

>   [AQB](#adaptive-quorum-biasing-aqb); and

Reviewer 4: This responsability of the council is Polkadot specific. I recommend Deleting the last sentence entirely, or if you like to keep it, start it with "In Polkadot, the council is..."

- cancel a referendum (when unanimous only); and
- give up their seat.

---

## Database Backend

The means by which the [state](#state) of a [blockchain](#blockchain) network is persisted between
invocations of the [blockchain node](#node) application. There is
[documentation](../advanced/storage) that explains the implementation of the database backend that
is used by Substrate-based chains.

## Dev Phrase

A
[mnemonic phrase](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mnemonic#For_numerical_sequences_and_mathematical_operations)
that is intentionally made public. All of the
[well-known development accounts](../integrate/subkey#well-known-keys) (Alice, Bob, Charlie, Dave,
Ferdie, and Eve) are generated from the same dev phrase. The dev phrase is:
`bottom drive obey lake curtain smoke basket hold race lonely fit walk`.

Many tools in the Substrate ecosystem, such as [`subkey`](../integrate/subkey), allow users to
implicitly specify the dev phrase by only specifying a derivation path such as `//Alice`.

## Digest

An extensible field of the [block header](#header) that encodes information needed by

> [light clients](#light-client) for chain synchronization.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
several actors in a blockchain network including, [light clients](#light-client) for chain synchronization, consensus engines for block verification, and the runtime itself in the case of pre-runtime digests.
```

## Header

> Pieces of primarily [cryptographic information](#cryptographic-primitives) that summarise a block.
> This information is used by [light-clients](#light-client) to get a minimally-secure but very
> efficient synchronisation of the chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pieces of primarily [cryptographic information](#cryptographic-primitives) that summarize a block.
This information is used by [light-clients](#light-client) to get a minimally-secure but very
efficient synchronization of the chain.
```

## Header

Pieces of primarily [cryptographic information](#cryptographic-primitives) that summarize a block.
This information is used by [light-clients](#light-client) to get a minimally-secure but very
efficient synchronization of the chain.

> ## HoneyBadgerBFT

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## HoneyBadgerBFT
```

Not relevant. Remove this.

A subsystem in Substrate for managing keys for the purpose of producing new blocks.

## Kusama

[Kusama](https://kusama.network/) is a Substrate-based [blockchain](#blockchain) that implements the
concepts described by the [Polkadot Whitepaper](https://polkadot.network/PolkaDotPaper.pdf). Kusama
is a "[canary](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/canary_in_a_coal_mine)" network (**not a test
network!**) and is referred to as
[Polkadot's "wild cousin"](https://polkadot.network/kusama-polkadot-comparing-the-cousins/). The
differences between a canary network and a true test network are related to the expectations of
permanence and stability; although Kusama is expected to be more stable than a true test network,

> like [Westend](#westend), it should not be expected to be as stable as an enterprise production

Author: Reached out to someone on that side to get some feedback :+1:

> like [Westend](#westend), it should not be expected to be as stable as an enterprise production

Reviewer 4: Even if it is within our marketing  guidelines, it feels out of place here.

> like [Westend](#westend), it should not be expected to be as stable as an enterprise production

Author: How so, @JoshOrndorff?

network like [Polkadot](#polkadot). Unlike Westend, which is maintained by
[Parity Technologies](https://www.parity.io/), Kusama (like Polkadot) is

> [controlled by its network participants](#council). The level of stability offered by canary

Author: Linking to Democracy pallet instead...let me know if that's better.

[cryptographic primitives](#cryptographic-primitives) and exposes an
[RPC (remote procedure call)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remote_procedure_call) server to allow
blockchain users to interact with the blockchain network.

---

## Macro

Macros are features of some programming languages, including Rust, that allow developers to "write
code that writes code". Substrate, and in particular the [FRAME](#frame) framework for
[runtime](#runtime) development, makes extensive use of
[Rust macros](https://doc.rust-lang.org/1.7.0/book/macros.html). Most users of Substrate will only
need to _use_ the macros written by the developers of Substrate; you should not need to _write_ your
own Rust macros to get started with Substrate development. Many developers find the
[`cargo-expand`](https://github.com/dtolnay/cargo-expand) tool helpful; this add-on to the Rust
toolchain makes it easy to "expand" Rust macros and inspect the code that they generate. Although
macros enable many of Substrate and FRAME's most powerful capabilities, they are difficult for IDEs
to support. The developers of Substrate and their colleagues work closely with the maintainers of

> Rust, the Rust community and the developers of IDE utilities to provide the best support possible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rust, the Rust community, and the developers of IDE utilities to provide the best support possible
```

---

## Node

A node correlates to a running instance of a blockchain client; it is part of the
[peer-to-peer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peer-to-peer) network that allows blockchain
participants to interact with one another. Substrate nodes can fill a number of roles in a
blockchain network. For instance, [validators](#validator) are the block-producing nodes that power
the blockchain, while [light-clients](#light-client) facilitate scalable interactions in
resource-constrained environments like [UIs](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate-connect) or
embedded devices.

## Nominated Proof-of-Stake (NPoS)

A means of determining a set of [validators](#validator) (and thus [authorities](#authority)) from a
number of accounts willing to commit their stake to the proper (non-[Byzantine](#byzantine-failure))

> functioning of one or more [authoring](#author)/validator nodes. This phrases a set of staked
> nominations as a constraint optimization problem to eventually give a maximally staked set of
> validators each with a number of supporting nominators lending their stake. Slashing and rewards are
> done in a pro-rata manner.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
functioning of one or more [authoring](#author)/validator nodes. The Polkadot paper describes validator selection
as a constraint optimization problem to eventually give a maximally staked set of
validators each with a number of supporting nominators lending their stake. Slashing and rewards are
done in a pro-rata manner.
```

---

## Node

> A node correlates to a running instance of a blockchain client - it is part of the
> [peer-to-peer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peer-to-peer) network that allow blockchain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A node correlates to a running instance of a blockchain client; it is part of the
[peer-to-peer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peer-to-peer) network that allows blockchain
```

participants to interact with one another. Substrate nodes can fill a number of roles in a
blockchain network. For instance, [authors](#author) are the block-producing nodes that power the

> blockchain while [light-clients](#light-client) facilitate scalable interactions with user-facing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
blockchain, while [light-clients](#light-client) facilitate scalable interactions with user-facing
```

applications.

## Nominated Proof-of-Stake (NPoS)

> A means of determining a set of [authorities](#authority) from a number of accounts willing to

Author: I just reverted back to the original wording for now.

commit their stake to the proper (non-[Byzantine](#byzantine-failure)) functioning of one or more

> [authoring nodes](#author). This was originally proposed in

Author: Also reverted

[the Polkadot paper](https://polkadot.network/PolkaDotPaper.pdf) and phrases a set of staked

> nominations as a constraint optimisation problem to eventually give a maximally staked set of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nominations as a constraint optimization problem to eventually give a maximally staked set of
```

---

## Parachain

> A parachain is (generally) a [blockchain](#blockchain) that encapsulates capabilities that are
> specific to a domain or application. The term "parachain" refers to the blockchains that derive
> shared infrastructure and security from a "[relay chain](#relay-chain)". You can
> [learn more about parachains on the Polkadot Wiki](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/en/learn-parachains).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A parachain is a [blockchain](#blockchain) that derives shared
security from a "[relay chain](#relay-chain)". You can
[learn more about parachains on the Polkadot Wiki](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/en/learn-parachains).

Substrate-based blockchains can easily be turned into parachains using Cumulus.
```

---

## Parachain

A parachain is a [blockchain](#blockchain) that encapsulates capabilities that are specific to a
domain or application. The term "parachain" was defined in
[the Polkadot Whitepaper](https://polkadot.network/PolkaDotPaper.pdf) and refers to the blockchains
that derive shared infrastructure and security from a "[relay chain](#relay-chain)".
[Rococo](#rococo) is the Polkadot Network's parachain test network.

## Pallet

A module that encapsulates a set of related capabilities that is used to compose a

> [FRAME](#frame)-based [runtime](#runtime).

Reviewer: Yeah, "related capabilities" too vague. A pallet contains domain-specific logic, storage items, and events with a composable interface.

## Polkadot Network

The [Polkadot Network](https://polkadot.network/) is a next-generation platform that implements a

> heterogenous ("chain-of-chains") architecture. The Polkadot Network is a Substrate-based

Reviewer: :100:

[blockchain](#blockchain) that serves the role of "[relay chain](#relay-chain)", a central hub in a
heterogenous blockchain network that supports the other chains (the "[parachains](#parachain)") by
providing shared infrastructure and security. The initial stages of
[Polkadot's multi-phase launch process](https://polkadot.network/explaining-the-polkadot-launch-process/)
do not include support for parachains; [Rococo](#rococo) is the Polkadot Network's parachain test
network. Although the Polkadot Network was maintained by
[Parity Technologies](https://www.parity.io/) when it initially launched, it is already controlled

> by [secure, decentralized, collective governance](#council).

Reviewer: Agree, this is not a good definition of Polkadot. And I don't see how the launch process is relevant at all.

> by [secure, decentralized, collective governance](#council).

Author: Joe, that is not a helpful comment. Can you please provide some constructive criticism?

> by [secure, decentralized, collective governance](#council).

Author: I updated this definition but left a note about the launch process because I don't want people to read this definition and think that Polkadot offers capabilities that it does not currently support. Happy to hear suggestions for way to improve :+1:

---

## Relay Chain

> This term was defined in [the Polkadot Whitepaper](https://polkadot.network/PolkaDotPaper.pdf) and

Reviewer: Agree, not important. Define it here.
